---
title: Deadlock
categories: [Computer Science, OS]
date: 2022-08-09 12:00:04
tags: [cs, os]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: <author_id>
---

# L7. Deadlock

2/ The Deadlock problem

a set of blocked processes each holding a resource and waiting to acquire a resource held by another process in the set.

9/ Necessary conditions for a Deadlock

1. Mutual exclusion
2. Hold and wait
3. No preemption
4. Circular wait

  

10/ Methods for Handling Deadlocks

1. Deadlock Prevention or Avoidance
    
    Ensure that the system will never enter a deadlock state
    
    Prevention - Ensure that one of the four dealock conditions never occur
    
    Avoidance - Avoid deadlock by run-time checking and allocation of resources. run-time 돌면서 실시간으로 검사. 데드락을 피하는 방법이기 때문에 prevention 보다 현실적. circular wait 이 일어나지 않게 하기. 
    
2. Deadlock Detection and Recovery
    
    allow the system to enter a deadlock state and then recover
    
    Process termination. Resource preemption(rollback, 다만 starvation 문제 발생 가능)
    

14/ Safe state

데드락이 발생하지 않는 프로세스 실행 순서가 존재하는 state 이 safe state


<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>
    /**
    *  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
    *  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables    */
    /*
    var disqus_config = function () {
    this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
    this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
    };
    */
    (function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
    var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
    s.src = 'https://yoontaeung-github-io.disqus.com/embed.js';
    s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
    (d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
    })();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>